What is to speak?
Ablar.
And to eat
Vivir er verb good so there we have an R, er and ear verb.
And we saw R verbs
form one group and er ir verbs form another group.
But we have one time in the entire Spanish language where there is a difference between er and ear verbs.
Otherwise, they are always forming one group.
But just one occasion in the whole Spanish language where there is a difference between them.
How do you say we speak or we are speaking
How would you say we eat or we are eating?
Comemos.
Good.
And how is we live
Vivimos.
Good.
So for er verbs we use emos for we in the present and for ear verbs we use emos.
For we in the present.
But of course, for the other versions, they are using the same endings.
For example, he eats is
Komme.
Kombe.
We use e.
He lives.
Bibe.
Again we're using an E.
They eat or you guys eat.
Common.
Good.
They live or you guys live?
Viven.
Where do you guys live?
Donde viven.
Donde beven.
Very good.
What was the word for it?
Not it, but it it
La.
La, good.
There's a couple of interesting and useful things we can do with La It in Spanish, which we can't do in English.
For example, when you want to say the interesting thing, the complicated thing is, the interesting thing is.
The difficult thing about that is.
Instead of saying the word for thing in Spanish, you can just say, for example, lo interesante.
Lo interesante means the interesting thing.
So you get the structure.
The interesting thing with lo interesante.
So
How would you say, for example, the interesting thing is that they live here?
The interesting thing is that they live here
Lo interesante es que viven aquí.
Very good.
Lo interesante is que viven aquí.
How would you say the interesting thing is that they live together?
Now the word for together in Spanish is
Junto.
This is the singular masculine version.
J-U-N-T-O.
Now it's related to junction.
It doesn't sound like it, but when you realize that junto is with J, then you can see how it's related to junction in English and join.
The interesting thing is that they live together
Lo interesante is que viven junto.
Good, but it's them, no?
They vivan.
Juntos.
Good.
Lo interesante is que viven juntos.
Or if they were two females, you would say.
Juntas.
Good.
Lo interesante is that viven juntas.
The interesting thing is that they live together.
What do you think facile means?
Facile.
Easy.
Why?
Facilitate.
Good.
To facilitate is to make easy.
So we have facile.
Easy.
So if you wanted to say the easy thing, how would you say that?
Lo facile.
Lo facile and then you will carry on.
So we can say the easy thing is that they come together
The easy thing is that they come together.
Lo facile is gay then it is irregular, right?
Try and build it, see what happens
Go there first and then see.
It's not Vienna.
No, it's Veng Vengo.
But you're going for the day version, so don't go from veneer to I version to lay version
Well I might as well remember it.
Why?
That's how you get lost.
Ah.
Right?
What you want to do is focus your thoughts on just what you have in front of you, which is going from veneer to the they form
And try to build it as it should be and then when you get that result then have a look at oh maybe if it's irregular if it doesn't feel right.
So is it Viennan?
Of course.
You see?
Yeah.
Okay
The I one though.
My mind is trying to remember.
Bengo.
Bingo.
But it's not important.
If you don't need it now, it shouldn't be important for you.
Because with everything you will remember you will remember something similar that you don't remember.
If you let that occupy your thoughts then you are gonna block.
You need to be comfortable with a level of uncertainty to learn a language
If you want to have the whole panorama of the whole language before you start speaking, you will never start speaking.
And uh sooner or later we're gonna come across again that thought that distracted us because we're gonna want to say it and in that moment
we will sort it out.
So the more we do that, the more you're gonna control this panorama of Spanish that makes you a little bit insecure right now because you know so much and you feel like it's all floating around
The easy thing is that they come together.
Lo facil es que vienen juntos.
Good.
Very good.
How would you say the complicated thing is that they come together?
Complicacion, complicar, complicado?
Yeah
So lo complicado es que vienen juntos.
Lo complicado es que vienen juntos.
Good, so we can say lo bueno, the good thing, lo malo, the bad thing, malo is bad, like in malnutritioned, that means badly nutritioned.
So that's a useful structure.
Before we said de esta forma in this way, de esta forma, we could also say de esta manera in this manner.
But very very common in Spanish when we want to say like this, like that, is the word así.
A S I Asi.
A sea.
A si means like this or like that.
So if you want to say something like we don't speak like this, we don't speak in that way.
You don't really need to say manera or desa forma.
You can just take this wonderful shortcut for like this or like that, which is a si.
So like this, like that, así
So we don't speak like that.
We don't speak in that way.
No ablamos así.
No hablamos así.
We don't eat like that.
No comemos así.
We don't live like that.
No vivimos así.
Good.
Another interesting thing that we can do with law, a useful structure we can make with law is law d
The combination of lo and de means like the thing about.
So we see how law can sometimes replace thing lo interesante, the interesting thing, and lo de is like the thing about.
So for example, if you wanted to say the thing about the party, you just say Lo de la Fiesta.
So if you want to say we are speaking about
The thing about the party.
Not we are speaking about the party, but we're speaking about that issue of the party.
That thing we know what we are referring to.
We are speaking about that business
about the party.
Hablamos lo de la fiesta.
Or hablamos sobre about, you could say that as well.
Hablamos sobre lo de la fiesta.
You could even say de, we speak of.
Hablamos de lo de la fiesta.
You can say that business about Juan, that thing about Juan.
How would you say that?
Lo Te Juan.
Ah, Lo de Juan.
Good.
So you could say I don't want to speak about
Juan's business like this.
I don't want to speak about Juan's business like this.
And for Juan's business, you will just say
Lo Tehuan Good.
So I don't want to speak about Juan's business like this
No quiero hablar de lo de Juan así.
Good.
Or we could say no quiero hablar sobre lo de Juan así or just no quiero hablar lo de Juan así.
So lo de we kind of want to see as a unean that thing about.
And we've seen already that de can mean about.
So it's just it about, that thing about.
It's used very often in Spanish and you will find it very useful.
So you could say for example, I want to organize that thing tomorrow.
That thing tomorrow, the thing about tomorrow.
I want to organize what's to organize
Organizar good.
So I want to organize that thing about tomorrow.
La magnana is the morning.
Oh sorry, tomorrow.
Yeah, so morning and tomorrow are the same word in Spanish.
Mañana.
If you say la mañana, we're gonna understand the morning.
So it's just mañana.
Good, so all together
Very good.
Quiero organizar lo de mañana.
it about tomorrow, the thing about tomorrow.
But I don't want to organize it like this.
Pero no quiero organizarlo así.
Good.
Good, but.
I don't want to organize it like this.
Or if you wanted to be more emphatic, you could replace a C with de esta manera, de esta forma.
of this way, of this form.
But Asi is the most common.
You will be hearing it all the time